
RHEL-07-010500 - The operating system must uniquely identify and must authenticate organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users) using multi-factor authentication.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

To assure accountability and prevent unauthenticated access, organizational users must be identified and authenticated to prevent potential misuse and compromise of the system.

Organizational users include organizational employees or individuals the organization deems to have equivalent status of employees (e.g., contractors). Organizational users (and processes acting on behalf of users) must be uniquely identified and authenticated to all accesses, except for the following:

1) Accesses explicitly identified and documented by the organization. Organizations document specific user actions that can be performed on the information system without identification or authentication; 

and

2) Accesses that occur through authorized use of group authenticators without individual authentication. Organizations may require unique identification of individuals in group accounts (e.g., shared privilege accounts) or for detailed accountability of individual activity.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000104-GPOS-00051, SRG-OS-000106-GPOS-00053, SRG-OS-000107-GPOS-00054, SRG-OS-000109-GPOS-00056, SRG-OS-000108-GPOS-00055, SRG-OS-000108-GPOS-00057, SRG-OS-000108-GPOS-00058

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system requires multifactor authentication to uniquely identify organizational users using multi-factor authentication.

Check to see if smartcard authentication is enforced on the system:

# authconfig --test | grep -i smartcard

The entry for use only smartcard for login may be enabled, and the smartcard module and smartcard removal actions must not be blank.

If smartcard authentication is disabled or the smartcard and smartcard removal actions are blank, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000766