
RHEL-07-030671 - All uses of the delete_module command must be audited.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Without generating audit records that are specific to the security and mission needs of the organization, it would be difficult to establish, correlate, and investigate the events relating to an incident or identify those responsible for one. 

Audit records can be generated from various components within the information system (e.g., module or policy filter).

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000471-GPOS-00216, SRG-OS-000477-GPOS-00222

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system generates audit records when successful/unsuccessful attempts to use the delete_module command occur. 

Check the auditing rules in /etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules with the following command:

Note: The output lines of the command are duplicated to cover both 32-bit and 64-bit architectures. Only the line appropriate for the system architecture must be present.

# grep -i delete_module /etc/audit/etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules

If the command does not return the following output (appropriate to the architecture), this is a finding. 

-a always,exit -F arch=b32  -S delete_module -F auid!=4294967295 -F subj=unconfined_u:unconfined_r:unconfined_t:s0-s0:c0.c1023 -F key=module-change

-a always,exit -F arch=b64  -S delete_module -F auid!=4294967295 -F subj=unconfined_u:unconfined_r:unconfined_t:s0-s0:c0.c1023 -F key=module-change

If the command does not return any output, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000172