
RHEL-07-021060 - The umask must be set to 077 for all local interactive user accounts.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

The umask controls the default access mode assigned to newly created files. A umask of 077 limits new files to mode 700 or less permissive. Although umask can be represented as a four-digit number, the first digit representing special access modes is typically ignored or required to be “0”. This requirement applies to the globally configured system defaults and the local interactive user defaults for each account on the system.

Check
~~~~~

Verify that the default umask for all local interactive users is “077”.

Identify the locations of all local interactive user home directories by looking at the “/etc/passwd” file.

Check all local interactive user initialization files for interactive users with the following command:

Note: The example is for a system that is configured to create users home directories in the /home directory.

# grep -i umask /home/*/.*

If any local interactive user initialization files are found to have a umask statement that has a value less restrictive than “077”, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000368, CCI-000318, CCI-001812, CCI-001813, CCI-001814