
RHEL-07-040110 - A FIPS 140-2 approved cryptographic algorithm must be used for SSH communications.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Unapproved mechanisms that are used for authentication to the cryptographic module are not verified and therefore cannot be relied upon to provide confidentiality or integrity, and DoD data may be compromised.

Operating systems utilizing encryption are required to use FIPS-compliant mechanisms for authenticating to cryptographic modules.

FIPS 140-2 is the current standard for validating that mechanisms used to access cryptographic modules utilize authentication that meets DoD requirements. This allows for Security Levels 1, 2, 3, or 4 for use on a general purpose computing system.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000033-GPOS-00014, SRG-OS-000120-GPOS-00061, SRG-OS-000125-GPOS-00065, SRG-OS-000250-GPOS-00093, SRG-OS-000393-GPOS-00173

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system uses mechanisms meeting the requirements of applicable federal laws, Executive orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance for authentication to a cryptographic module.

Note: If RHEL-07-021280 is a finding, this is automatically a finding as the system cannot implement FIPS 140-2 approved cryptographic algorithms and hashes.

The location of the sshd_config file may vary on the system and can be found using the following command:

# find / -name ‘sshd*_config’

If there is more than one ssh server daemon configuration file on the system, determine which daemons are active on the system with the following command:

# ps -ef | grep sshd

The command will return the full path of the ssh daemon. This will indicate which sshd_config file will be checked with the following command:

# grep -i ciphers /etc/ssh/sshd_config
Ciphers aes128-ctr aes192-ctr, aes256-ctr

If any ciphers other than “aes128-ctr”, “aes192-ctr”, or “aes256-ctr” are listed, the “Ciphers” keyword is missing, or the retuned line is commented out, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000068, CCI-000366, CCI-000803