
RHEL-07-020090 - The operating system must prevent non-privileged users from executing privileged functions to include disabling, circumventing, or altering implemented security safeguards/countermeasures.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Preventing non-privileged users from executing privileged functions mitigates the risk that unauthorized individuals or processes may gain unnecessary access to information or privileges.

Privileged functions include, for example, establishing accounts, performing system integrity checks, or administering cryptographic key management activities. Non-privileged users are individuals who do not possess appropriate authorizations. Circumventing intrusion detection and prevention mechanisms or malicious code protection mechanisms are examples of privileged functions that require protection from non-privileged users.

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system prevents non-privileged users from executing privileged functions to include disabling, circumventing, or altering implemented security safeguards/countermeasures.

Get a list of authorized users (other than system administrator and guest accounts) for the system.

Check the list against the system by using the following command:

# semanage login -l | more
Login Name  SELinux User   MLS/MCS Range  Service
__default__  user_u    s0-s0:c0.c1023   *
root   unconfined_u   s0-s0:c0.c1023   *
system_u  system_u   s0-s0:c0.c1023   *
joe  staff_u   s0-s0:c0.c1023   *

All administrators must be mapped to the sysadm_u or staff_u users with the appropriate domains (sysadm_t and staff_t).

All authorized non-administrative users must be mapped to the user_u role or the appropriate domain (user_t).

If they are not mapped in this way, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-002165, CCI-002235