
RHEL-07-030710 - The operating system must generate audit records for all account creations, modifications, disabling, and termination events.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Without generating audit records that are specific to the security and mission needs of the organization, it would be difficult to establish, correlate, and investigate the events relating to an incident or identify those responsible for one.

Audit records can be generated from various components within the information system (e.g., module or policy filter).

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000004-GPOS-00004, SRG-OS-000239-GPOS-00089, SRG-OS-000241-GPOS-00090, SRG-OS-000241-GPOS-00091, SRG-OS-000303-GPOS-00120, SRG-OS-000476-GPOS-00221

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system automatically audits account creation by performing the following series of commands to check the file system rules in /etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules:

# grep /etc/group /etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules

If the command does not return the following output, this is a finding. 

-w /etc/group -p wa -k audit_rules_usergroup_modification

# grep /etc/passwd /etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules

If the command does not return the following output, this is a finding. 

-w /etc/passwd -p wa -k audit_rules_usergroup_modification

# grep /etc/gshadow /etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules

If the command does not return the following output, this is a finding. 

-w /etc/gshadow -p wa -k audit_rules_usergroup_modification

# grep /etc/shadow /etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules

If the command does not return the following output, this is a finding. 

-w /etc/shadow -p wa -k audit_rules_usergroup_modification

# grep /etc/security/opasswd /etc/audit/rules.d/audit.rules

If the command does not return the following output, this is a finding. 

-w /etc/security/opasswd -p wa -k audit_rules_usergroup_modification

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000018, CCI-000172, CCI-001403, CCI-002130