
RHEL-07-020850 - Local initialization files for local interactive users must be group-owned by the users primary group or root.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Local initialization files for interactive users are used to configure the user's shell environment upon logon. Malicious modification of these files could compromise accounts upon logon.

Check
~~~~~

Verify the local initialization files of all local interactive users are group-owned by that user’s primary Group Identifier (GID).

Check the home directory assignment for all non-privileged users on the system with the following command:

Note: The example will be for the smithj user, who has a home directory of “/home/smithj” and a primary group of users.

# cut -d: -f 1,3,4 /etc/passwd | egrep ":[1-4][0-9]{2}$|:[0-9]{1,2}$"
smithj /home/smithj 250

# grep 250 /etc/group
users:x:250:smithj,jonesj,jacksons 

Note: This may miss interactive users that have been assigned a privileged User Identifier (UID). Evidence of interactive use may be obtained from a number of log files containing system logon information.

Check the group owner of all local interactive users’ initialization files with the following command:

# ls -al /home/smithj/.*
-rwxr-xr-x  1 smithj users        896 Mar 10  2011 .profile
-rwxr-xr-x  1 smithj users        497 Jan  6  2007 .login
-rwxr-xr-x  1 smithj users        886 Jan  6  2007 .something

If all local interactive users’ initialization files are not group-owned by that user’s primary GID, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000366