
RHEL-07-040040 - The operating system, for PKI-based authentication, must enforce authorized access to all PKI private keys stored or used by the operating system.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

If the private key is discovered, an attacker can use the key to authenticate as an authorized user and gain access to the network infrastructure.

The cornerstone of the PKI is the private key used to encrypt or digitally sign information.

If private keys are stolen, this will lead to the compromise of the authentication and non-repudiation gained through PKI because the attacker can use the private key(s) to digitally sign data and thus impersonate the associated subjects (systems or users).

Both the holders of a digital certificate and the issuing authority must take careful measures to protect the corresponding private keys. Private keys should always be generated and protected in appropriate FIPS 140-2 validated cryptographic modules.

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system, for PKI–based authentication, enforces authorized access to all PKI private keys stored/utilized by the operating system.

Check the module being used by the system smartcard architecture with the following command:

# grep cert_policy /etc/pam_pkcs11/pam_pkcs11.conf
use_pkcs11_module = cackey; 

If the module returned is not cackey or coolkey, or the line is commented out, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000186