
RHEL-07-030090 - The operating system must shut down upon audit processing failure, unless availability is an overriding concern. If availability is a concern, the system must alert the designated staff (System Administrator [SA] and Information System Security Officer [ISSO] at a minimum) in the event of an audit processing failure.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

It is critical for the appropriate personnel to be aware if a system is at risk of failing to process audit logs as required. Without this notification, the security personnel may be unaware of an impending failure of the audit capability, and system operation may be adversely affected.

Audit processing failures include software/hardware errors, failures in the audit capturing mechanisms, and audit storage capacity being reached or exceeded.

This requirement applies to each audit data storage repository (i.e., distinct information system component where audit records are stored), the centralized audit storage capacity of organizations (i.e., all audit data storage repositories combined), or both.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000046-GPOS-00022, SRG-OS-000047-GPOS-00023

Check
~~~~~

Confirm the audit configuration regarding how auditing processing failures are handled.

Check to see what level auditctl is set to in /etc/audit/auditd.conf with the following command: 

# grep \-f /etc/audit/auditd.conf
auditctl -f 2

If the value of "-f" is set to “2”, the system is configured to panic (shut down) in the event of an auditing failure.

If the value of "-f" is set to “1”, the system is configured to only send information to the kernel log regarding the failure.

If the "-f" flag is not set, this is a CAT I finding.

If the "-f" flag is set to any value other than “1” or “2”, this is a CAT II finding.

If the "-f" flag is set to “1” but the availability concern is not documented or there is no monitoring of the kernel log, this is a CAT III finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000139