
RHEL-07-020130 - A file integrity tool must verify the baseline operating system configuration at least weekly.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Unauthorized changes to the baseline configuration could make the system vulnerable to various attacks or allow unauthorized access to the operating system. Changes to operating system configurations can have unintended side effects, some of which may be relevant to security.

Detecting such changes and providing an automated response can help avoid unintended, negative consequences that could ultimately affect the security state of the operating system. The operating system's Information Management Officer (IMO)/Information System Security Officer (ISSO) and System Administrators (SAs) must be notified via email and/or monitoring system trap when there is an unauthorized modification of a configuration item.

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system routinely checks that baseline configuration changes are not performed in an authorized manner.

Note: A file integrity tool other than Advanced Intrusion Detection Environment (AIDE) may be used, but the tool must be executed at least once per week.

Check for the presence of a cron job running daily or weekly on the system that executes AIDE daily to scan for changes to the system baseline. The command used in the example will use a daily occurrence.

Check the /etc/cron.daily subdirectory for a crontab file controlling the execution of the file integrity application. For example, if AIDE is installed on the system, use the following command:

# ls -al /etc/cron.* | grep aide
-rwxr-xr-x  1 root root        29 Nov  22  2015 aide

If the file integrity application is not executed on the system with the required frequency, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-001744