
RHEL-07-040290 - The operating system must enable an application firewall, if available.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Firewalls protect computers from network attacks by blocking or limiting access to open network ports. Application firewalls limit which applications are allowed to communicate over the network.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000480-GPOS-00227, SRG-OS-000480-GPOS-00231, SRG-OS-000480-GPOS-00232

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system enabled an application firewall.

Check to see if "firewalld" is installed with the following command:

# yum list installed | grep firewalld
firewalld-0.3.9-11.el7.noarch.rpm

If the “firewalld” package is not installed, ask the system administrator if another firewall application (such as iptables) is installed. If an application firewall is not installed, this is a finding. 

Check to see if the firewall is loaded and active with the following command:

# systemctl status firewalld - must show that the firewall if loaded and active
firewalld.service - firewalld - dynamic firewall daemon

   Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/firewalld.service; enabled)
   Active: active (running) since Tue 2014-06-17 11:14:49 CEST; 5 days ago

If “firewalld” does not show a status of “loaded and active”, this is a finding. 

Check the state of the firewall:

# firewall-cmd --state 
running

If “firewalld” does not show a state of “running”, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-000366