
RHEL-07-010120 - When passwords are changed or new passwords are assigned, the new password must contain at least one special character.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity
~~~~~~~~

Medium

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Use of a complex password helps to increase the time and resources required to compromise the password. Password complexity, or strength, is a measure of the effectiveness of a password in resisting attempts at guessing and brute-force attacks.

Password complexity is one factor of several that determines how long it takes to crack a password. The more complex the password, the greater the number of possible combinations that need to be tested before the password is compromised.

Check
~~~~~

Verify the operating system enforces password complexity by requiring that at least one special character be used.

Note: The value to require a number of special characters to be set is expressed as a negative number in /etc/security/pwquality.conf.

Check the value for “ocredit” in /etc/security/pwquality.conf with the following command:

# grep ocredit /etc/security/pwquality.conf 
ocredit=-1

If the value of “ocredit” is not set to a negative value, this is a finding.

Additional Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


* Security Override Guidance: None

* Mitigation Control: None

* IA Controls: None

* False Negatives: None

* Mitigations: None

* Third Party Tools: None

* Responsibility: None

* Potential Impacts: None

* False Positives: None

* Documentable: false

* Control Correlation Identifiers: CCI-001619